9:00 am in Shanghai Shenzhen and here in
Hong Kong call you're watching the China
show. I'm Ivon man with David and glass.
>> Good morning. We are counting down to
the open markets in greater China. Our
top stories today Asian stocks extend a
recordbreaking [music]
global rally as investors look past
geopolitical concerns. China in focus
after the [music] CSI 300's best start
to a year since 2015.
>> AI remains a top market theme. Nvidia
boss Jensen Hong saying highly
anticipated [music] data center chips
are nearing release this year.
>> Also ahead, Nicholas Maduro and his wife
plead not [music] guilty to drug
violence and weapons charges as his
administration reasserts itself in
Venezuela.
>> And South Korea [music] hits the reset
button on relations with China as their
two leaders meet in Beijing.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Welcome to the show. A quick glance at
market action and we are as you can see
sl slightly to the upside when you look
at US futures though uh slightly to the
downside. All that being said, that was
a well is let me use the is the the
press and tensor uh is still is a
terrific start to the year for risk
assets looking at how much these uh
these these benchmarks have rallied the
costby understandably so and there's a
Hyundai story by the way which I'll get
to later on as well um fantastic start
to the year in the Cosby in fact you
know at about this level we're about 4%
from getting to a level which is which
would be double the level just 9 months
ago so just imagine the rally there
Taiwan Coming online within Taiwan, of
course, there's a Hanghai story. There's
the broader Nvidia story and what was
announced and we'll get to all of that
in a moment. Honai out with fourth
quarter sales be after the close
yesterday. I think it was a 20 plus%
year-on-year jump, one and a half% to
the upside there. The dollar story, two
things, right? You have geopolitics
and then you had the ISM numbers coming
in at a four-month low, 14-month low
rather. And that's really what the
markets paid attention to. 123 right now
on the Bloomberg dollar index. Uh a
glance of commodity markets with Brent
edging higher at as of the close and uh
this is what we're doing as far as Brent
is concerned. Precious metals also
seeing some consolidation but copper is
[clears throat] separately still the
story to watch. 13,000
uh imports flows and concerns around
supply coming through in the copper
story. In fact, how is that playing out
as far as the Shanghai contract is
concerned? uh flipped the page, you had
the contract coming through A50 futures,
fantastic start to the year on the CSI
300. We're very near a four year high.
In fact, the Shanghai comp is also very
near a 10-year high. So, we'll watch for
milestones there. And as you can see,
dollar China is still below that seven
handle.
>> Yeah, the key question is how much more
appreciation can we see now that we are
seeing right that sub seven for for
China right now. And certainly it's
going to be a big key theme here as we
start to see more momentum coming back
in this Chinese market and at a time
when you're talking about Venezuela
right where you know just now we just
saw a headline that there are maybe some
blasts still around the presidential
palace markets are still taking in
stride right now. Yeah, there are lots
of reasons that they are taking that one
in stride, right? And I think when you
look at the announcements coming through
out of CES in Vegas, yes, a lot of the
announcements in China going into the
new year show yesterday, right?
>> Show BU. Uh, in fact, when you look at
what led the rally in the CSI yesterday,
the chip story, right? And I think you
also had Premier Lee underscoring CCTV
reporting this yesterday underscoring
the need and urging the need to upgrade
robotics uh and AI. So those are the
sort of sectors to watch going into the
open today. Extremely heavy volumes in
the onshore markets yesterday.
>> Yeah. Let's get back to CES as we just
mentioned, right? Because plenty of news
coming through there already where
Nvidia CEO Jensen Hong says the
company's highly anticipated Reuben data
center chips are nearing release.
Speaking at Las Vegas, Hong said that
customers will soon be able to try the
new hardware that's expected to speed up
AI development.
>> This is the Verus Ver CPU. got 88 CPU
cores and the CPU cores are designed to
be multi-threaded but the multi-threaded
nature of of uh Vera was designed so
that each one of the 176 threads could
get its full full performance. So it's
essentially as of there's 176 cores but
only 88 physical cores. So these cores
were designed in in using a technology
called spatial multi-threading. But the
IO performance is incredible.
All
right, let's bring in our Bloomberg Tech
co-anchor, Ed Ledllo. He is in Vegas. He
was there at the keynote speech with
Jensen Huang. Ed, fantastic. Uh, thank
you for joining us today. There's the
technology and there's the timing. Let's
start with the timing. Interesting
timing as we start out this new year.
Yeah, I mean there was a great deal of
expectation about this keynote, but in
in all honesty, it kind of fell flat
because their confirmation that that
Vera Rubin Systems will ship in the
second half of 2026 is a repetition of
what they said in November, but it was
one news headline in in a presentation
that in all honesty kind of lacked a lot
of news. It's important that uh we have
confirmation that Vera Rubin is going
into full production because Nvidia
commits on an annual cadence to a new
generation of technology and if you have
a gigawatt of data center capacity
that's based on Vera Rubin it's capable
of 10 times the throughput of the same
gigawatt of capacity that has the prior
generation blackwell but if you're a
hyperscaler and AI lab it's going to
cost you onetenth uh of of the blackwell
cost to generate a token so it alters
the economics of what's happening in AI
it gave the market confidence that
they're moving to schedule to get it
into the marketplace.
>> Is is there any sort of I mean I mean
obviously the market has continue to be
so bullish on Nvidia. We saw the stock
move on on just that headline alone as
you mentioned Ed you know where could we
see signs of disappointment from this
market then if we get more details on
this?
Yeah, it's it's that the the bar is set
very uh high in terms of what Jensen
Wong does when he goes on stage and does
a two-hour presentation. You know, in
October in Washington DC at their own
event, he surprised everyone by almost
giving financial guidance and saying
over the next five financial quarters
they expected $500 billion of sales
split across Blackwell and Reuben. And
so the assumption was he would do
something similar here at CES and he
didn't. But it's kind of a 48 hour
extravaganza because the moment he was
done with his keynote presentation which
kind of talked to all the big picture
themes he's always talked about physical
AI the next phase of AI for Nvidia he
then went and met with the analysts and
there were many more headlines from that
we can get to them tomorrow he'll speak
to the press he'll come on Bloomberg
television and there'll be a lot of more
opportunity to ask I guess more granular
detail for more granular detail that the
market wants to hear right now which is
basically what is the the the market for
infrastructure look like in 26 and
beyond.
Yeah, we look forward to that interview,
Ed. Uh, lots to talk about when it comes
to, of course, robotics, autonomous
driving as well with uh, Jensen Huang,
Ed Lllo there, our Bloomberg Tech
co-anchor at the CES in Las Vegas. Of
course, Ed is joined with our Asia team
as well, Sherry, as well as Belle are on
the ground there in Las Vegas and we'll
bring you full coverage of course
tomorrow. Terms of what else to watch in
greater China here today, this is of
course your agenda. Uh we talked about
the Lee and Shei meeting and really what
came out in that second meeting between
the two uh in about a month and
certainly that is going to be a key
focus here. We're still watching some of
the volatility that's picking up in Hong
Kong. But yeah, that rally in the
Asshare market yesterday was pretty
nuts. If you take a look at what
happened not just the CSI 300, the China
X continues to turn quite well.
Southbound flows were quite strong
yesterday as well. We'll still watch
that fix given the strength that we've
seen see any any sort of push back from
the the PBOC. We'll see. Uh we're
watching some of these Korea ETFs and
Well, the leverage ones in particular
just given the the big moves we've seen
on some of these big uh plays here
yesterday. Uh and of course sectors like
metals given the copper rally, gold,
silver still doing very well, tech and
of course chips still very much in focus
today.
>> Yeah, I think that it's I think we will
see what the market makes of this. But
that visit from Premier Lee reported by
CCTV to he visited BYD and Mida and also
underscored the need for an upgrade on
robotics and and the like. We'll see
what market makes of that. of course 6
cents of 1% to the upside right now in
case you missed that. Right. So Ivonne
just mentioned right now it was quite a
crazy rally in the entr markets
yesterday. So here's how we close 2% on
the CSI. We're about half of 1% give or
take from taking out the recent high
which takes us to a four-year high. It
healthcare and consumer staples as you
can see leading that rally quite
substantially. Volumes were also on the
heavier side of things uh to kick off
this year. joining us here on set to
talk us through what happened and the
outlook for 2026. Hong, managing partner
and CIO of Lotus Asset Management. Nice
to see you and happy new year.
>> Happy New Year to you.
>> Um there's been a not that it's happened
only yesterday, but there's been a
change in market leadership in the
Chinese markets. It's onshore that's
been taking the helm. What do you think
is going on there?
>> Yeah. Well, I think um because last year
in 2025, Hong Kong has been doing
substantially better than Asia. M
>> I think Asia only catch up after
Novemberish and also right now if you if
you look at the uh the leadership in the
market right so it's on one hand it's a
technology sector that is going uh on
full cylinder and then at the same time
I think the industrial metals are also
doing very very well as well so I think
you know many of the industrial names is
actually coming back it's giving people
a sense of you know a cyclical upswing
even though the economic data is not
showing it but I think in the market you
know sentiment is back and people is you
know have the money to spend and so
they're ready to get back to the market.
>> And do we still need more of the
fundamentals to improve for this rally
to continue?
>> Um I think so. U well I think right now
you know the fundamental is still quite
weak right so we we have already hit the
peak of the cycle in the uh in uh third
quarter 2025. I think people now is
looking for policies uh and I think
recent in recent days you know there's
uh sort of a policy talks from the top
uh basically saying that you know we're
going to you know support the property
market at all cost uh and all that. So I
think people are actually looking
forward uh to the delivery of of the
policies.
>> I mean there are two two sides to the
policy story. One is on the macro front.
One is specifically on specific sectors
right? So whether that's consumption,
the extension of subsidies or you know
calls for financing for tech, are there
specific industries that stand out to
you this year that might provide some
alpha?
>> Uh I think well if you look at the
five-year plan uh you know starting this
year uh basically you know top three
sectors is on the on the list one the
first one is technology.
>> Uh I think the second one is you know
build up the complete a comprehensive
industrial system and then the third one
is uh consumption. I think people should
look for clues, you know, from this uh
this 5year plan.
>> Okay. Um in terms of AI though, I mean,
it seems like it's the chipmakers that
starting the year in a very very strong
That's right. way. Do do I continue to
focus on the hardware?
>> I mean, or do I look at for the
everyone's talking about 2026 is the
year of adoption.
>> Everyone else,
>> everyone else [laughter] I mean where
should I lean more towards or or is it
all of the above?
>> No, I think all of the above. Um I think
you know the the advancement of the
hardware actually bring forward you know
the advancement in software as well and
I think couple of days ago uh deepse
actually come out with a new paper you
know showing a new way to train your
your models uh it's reminiscences of
last last year this time right so it's
all more or less the same you know you
deep come up with a new model that is
showing huge potential for Chinese tech
and then then everything rally for three
months I think you know a similar
episode is happening right now right so
I I think Deep Sig is making
breakthrough. Many other uh uh Chinese
AI companies are making breakthrough as
well. For example, B is listing it
semiconductor unit. I think um uh late
last year uh Alibaba is uh uh claimed
that it make a breakthrough on it models
as well. So I think you know there's
just so many things going on and also if
you look at the uh uh liquidity in the
market is still uh is still positive is
is still rising. Uh therefore, you know,
I think it's it's conducive for risk
taking.
>> You you posted something on X a few
[laughter] days ago, which was I think
your your 2025 calls and you had AI do a
summary of it, [laughter] right? And I
think we made a graphic of that. What
did Ho Hong get get right in 2025?
>> I like how you prompted it. You said
famous economist [laughter] Ho Hong
>> humble brag there.
>> Just in case there's any hogs out there,
but not not any famous economists.
>> Do you feel Yeah. Do you feel the same
way about what you got right in the
list?
>> Yeah, I think gold and silver is
probably my most prominent call last
year, right? So I I got it exactly right
and I think the um the trend is still
continuing. So I think after
consolidation gold and silver could move
substantially higher from here even
higher than last year. uh Chinese tech
uh had a good uh year as well you know
in the sense that for the first three
quarters Chinese tech actually uh took
the market leadership
>> uh all the way until mid uh October then
I think the the rally sort of paused a
little bit uh the UN I think is just
phenomenal right so despite uh a
background of uh uh the second trade war
I think the UN actually did quite
resilient last year and then starting to
rise this you know into this year and I
think the appreciation vision of the
Chinese uh exchange rate could could go
much further from here and commodities
in general is is go going through the
roof as well.
>> Do you foresee for the government be any
push back from the PBC? At what point
would they they might start not liking
or at least not tolerating this
appreciation? I yeah I think you know
PBOC has been you know making some sort
of gesture that you know it's not very
tolerable of a very fast rapid pace
appreciation you know because that could
sort of interfere with the policy the
monetary policy domestically and also
sort of uh hold back some of the
strength strengths that the Chinese
exporters has been enjoying the past
years uh but I think it's not entirely
up to the PBC anymore right so you can
see pro probably you know the reference
rate and the market rate should start to
diverge uh and also you know going into
the new year uh you know because the
Chinese yen has been sort of undervalued
for so long right so for the past couple
of years the the real effective exchange
rate for the Chinese yen has actually
depreciated almost 30%. Right? So how
could you explain you know in a in a
very uh in the background of very strong
Chinese exports you know ever rising you
know Chinese trade surplus and then is
actually going uh depreciating in the
past couple of years. So I think that's
sort of lay out a a sort of a good
foundation for the UN to appreciate this
year.
>> Anything anything to avoid?
>> Anything to avoid? I think in the rising
liquidity environment uh we love
everything. It's it's just a matter of
>> yeah just a matter of you know who is
rising more or less. Okay. So I think
you know we still likes industrial
commodities gold and silver uh Chinese
tech and and Chinese R&B. I think uh the
the trend that is starting late last
year will continue well into this year.
>> All right. How Hong, we'll see. We'll
have to put everything in for
>> love everything.
>> Chat GPT once again at [laughter] the
end of the year. See if you're right. Uh
how Hong there, managing partner and CIO
of Lotus Asset Management. We are
counting down the open of trade in
Shanghai, [music] Shenzhen, and Hong
Kong. This is the China show. Happy
Tuesday. Futures are up this morning.
[music]
ousted Venezuelan President Nicholas
Maduro has faced a [music] US court
along with his wife pleading not guilty
to narotism charges. Their appearance
before a New York judge does set off an
extraordinary legal battle with major
geopolitical ramifications. Let's get to
our senior editor, Derek Walbang. He
joins us from San Francisco here this
evening. Uh and Derek, just tell us what
happened in court today.
>> Well, it was a remarkable scene. Look,
you know, Nicholas Smaduro is one of the
um I guess most recognizable faces in
world governance, certainly in Latin
America. Um stands, you know, 6'3 in
tall. He's he is a clear head taller
than all of the uh agents who were
guarding him. Uh going through this
process, stands in a US court, declares
that he's innocent. He's not guilty.
He's a says he's a decent man and still
president of Venezuela except that he
had been kidnapped his word kidnapped
from his home in Karacus. Now uh you
know he he certainly was taken from
Venezuela by US forces. Uh he is now
stripped of all of the sort of regalia
of state. uh instead processed very much
like anybody else would be, albeit with
a ton more security presence in a
courtroom in New York, facing these uh
these these drugs related charges um
that he had been that he had
theoretically been facing from the
United States for some great amount of
time. It is one thing very much to say
this world leader is involved in drugs
trafficking and we don't like that and
we'd like for things to be different. It
is very much another thing for, you
know, more than 100 special forces
individuals and, you know, to to sort of
storm in, uh, grab a world leader and
present them to a United States court
um, you know, with within the matter of
a couple of days. This was a monumental
operation. This is one of those, you
know, sort of weekends that will remain
in history. It'll be something that
everyone's going to be talking about for
years, decades to come.
And you know, I guess the the framing of
how that conversation evolves will also
depend in parallel to what happens
domestically in in in Venezuela. Uh
what's happening right now? What are we
watching specifically there over I would
like to say domestic affairs, but
clearly that's that's that concept been
blurred somewhat.
>> Yeah. Well, David, I think the real
question right now is uh is is sort of
who's running Venezuela? And I say that
I say that in all of the possible ways
to frame that. Um, literally, who is the
person who's running? It's going to be,
you know, uh, someone who is an ally to
Nicholas Maduro. Um, you know, who who
is now, you know, in that in that
position stepping up one rank to go.
That's, you know, she was sworn in
today. Um, all of that is there. But
Donald Trump has been made has made very
very clear that in his mind he is the
ultimate person in charge of what's
going on in Venezuela. Marco Rubio, the
US Secretary of State, um who even when
he was senator of Florida was was a very
very uh big Venezuela hawk uh has has uh
been an incredibly influential person
when it comes to US policy on Latin
America. He's going to be a point person
uh for that relationship.
uh going forward. And so, you know, what
does that look like, you know, sort of
day on day. Now, that that uh that's one
side. The other side is is who pays to
get, you know, Venezuela up and running.
Uh Trump has made clear that he sees
American oil majors as the folks who
will be going in to make those
investments potentially repaid by the
United States in some form of way. um
you know that we're we're still waiting
to see exactly what some of those uh
companies your Kico Phillips your Exon
Mobile and such what their take on on
this is but uh the US energy secretary
is going to be talking to some of them
later this week.
>> Derek fantastic coverage so far. Um it's
been busy and no doubt it will continue
to be. Derek Wbank in San Francisco for
us a senior editor with the latest there
taking place right now. Ju just on that
story an extension here too. So
Bloomberg has been told that China's top
financial regulator has asked the banks
uh the Chinese banks to report their
lending exposure to Venezuela after the
US ousted Nicholas Madur. Now sources
say the regulator also urged banks to
closely monitor Venezuela related credit
to assess potential risks to lenders. Of
course, China has lent the backdrop here
has lent billions of dollars to
Venezuela over the years mainly to
support energy and infrastructure
projects. Okay. Uh as far as market
[music] reaction to that, we'll unpack
most of the things all things equal for
pointing to the upside 265 on the hing
index. The opening bell just under 7
minutes away. This is the China show.
All right, hang premarket [music]
looking pretty good right now. We're up
610 of 1%. and it continues to be an up
air story when it comes to the tech
trade and certainly watching of course
HStech up 8/10en of 1% southbound flows
we talked about were quite strong here I
think it's some of the highest levels
we've seen since October so that
certainly is helping things here today
eight shares are up half of 1% we're
still seeing a 698 handle for dollar
China in terms of analyst actions is
very much commodities based given what
we heard from the call from Goldman so
given what we saw with aluminum prices
gold and the like uh we are seeing the
likes of Chalco A&H shares uh though
have cut to a sell. So at least still
keeping that sell rating or cut to a
sell rating uh there. But price target
at 910. So perhaps maybe things are now
uh looking a little bit too heated there
according to Goldman. But yes, China
coal though has been raised to a buy uh
from Goldman Sachs. Angan steel also has
been a cut to a sell. In terms of what
to watch, Qui show that continues to be
a an ongoing positive story given this
whole AI video or model that came out
here. So we're we saw what double digit
gains yesterday. We're seeing another 2%
gains there [music] given some of the
overseas sort of popularity that we've
seen in the US in Korea as well. BYD
Madeas so Lee Chan did visit both of
[music] these uh companies yesterday and
really talking about the urge for
innovation robotics and drones as well
according to CCTV. The open is up next.
[music] This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Good morning. Welcome back. You're
watching the China Show. So, we're going
into the open today. Coming off the
[music] best start to the year on
market, I think in about 10 years or
[music] so. Couple of levels to watch.
on the CSI 300. Above that, we're back
to the highest in about 4 [music] years.
Shanghai comp is also very near the
recent high of 402950. [music]
Above that, we're back to levels last
seen in 2015.
>> Yeah, 2015. So, it [music] brings us
back to of course 10 or 11 year highs
here right now. We're also watching
Shanghai Composite as well getting
closer to those levels uh that we saw
back I want to say
>> about yeah [music] 4,000 uh around 30 is
a level to watch now of course uh for
those levels but yet this on the
backdrop of Asia stocks [music] already
hitting those records and extending that
record high once again and it's really
kind of bringing up a lot of as even Hal
mentioned some of the cyclical factors
of this market in China as well. uh the
PMI numbers that we got for December,
we'll get a bit more of that because
that came out during the holiday sort of
uh but maybe now there is some sense
that maybe things are looking a little
bit better. Is it a signs of a recovery?
We'll see, right? But yes, what we are
seeing right now uh as onshore markets
are looking a little bit flat, but just
continue to watch copper. There you go.
Uh this is of course the China futures
there which are continuing to follow
what we saw in the LME contract which
was 13,000 level which another record
for that one. So we're seeing three and
a half% gains uh for of course some of
these Shanghai futures as well. uh but
yes we talked about how you know the
dominance of this market has tilted more
towards the onore market of late right
so uh we are seeing of course yesterday
the best start since 2015 so certainly
uh there is momentum here right now so
slow going so far but Shenzhen is one to
watch because China continues to be it's
almost like quietly rally but yeah in
some ways we just overlook it somewhat
how but some it is doing quite well and
sometimes even outperforming some other
benchmarks out there you look at how
Hong Kong is doing as well obviously
we've been talking about the tech trade
uh that seems to be ongoing here once
again look at HStech we're up 1% here uh
apart from Alibaba and Xiaomi you are
seeing the likes of Tencent uh BU and
Mtoan are all gaining here this morning
right you talk about BU talking about
you know their AI unit or chip unit
about to get listed when they talk about
uh quaish and the double digit gains
that we saw yesterday on their AI image
model
>> is that good or bad for celebrities
>> I don't know I get so confused when I
see it on social media these you know
people posing with celebrities and I'm
like is that AI? And at most time it is.
>> Yeah.
>> Um love it or not. Yeah. It's
interesting. And then so certainly
that's one thing to watch in this market
right and and how said it's all of the
above when it comes to the whole AI and
how you position in China whether it's
the chip space or even just the where it
you know AI can be applied to. Um so
certainly that's what we're seeing but
southbound flows we'll see if we can see
another day of this. Right. So the flows
did hit the highest since October
yesterday. Um and so we are seeing it
seems like uh more in terms of momentum
today in Hong Kong. Hangen is up 610 of
1%. In terms of what some of the top
mainland tech movers are, we've been
focusing on the chip space yesterday
where we saw a lot of moves there. Um so
Avs Micro for example, we're still
seeing some of that here today, but not
as as as robust as yesterday. Uh BYD
drill makers as well. We did talk about
uh Lee Chan the premier did visit BYYD
and MDA some of these companies and
talked really about the whole innovation
side of things and and robotics
certainly gave a lot of attention there.
So you are seeing some of these stocks
rallying on the back of that here today
uh with the likes of BYD up close to 1%
and copper stocks right given what we've
seen in this copper rally. So yes,
there's a lot of issues or at least
people concerned about what US tariffs
are going to look like and I think the
US inventories is what's really kind of
driving a lot of the copper price now.
But there you go. Jangi copper up close
to 4%.
>> Yeah, copper takes the gold today. Now
speaking of something that's hot, um
we're looking at shares which have just
been halted in the last few minutes or
so. So we're looking at Japan here. Um
Hisamitsu Pharma. So if you're not too
familiar, you might be familiar with
some of its products. This is the
company that makes some of those hot
patches. U uh so shares were halted,
initial spike. Uh we understand based on
our sourcing uh let me just read it so I
can be more precise here. Uh that
management is mulling a takeover bid to
privatize the company. Uh the deal could
be worth 450 billion. That's yen or in
dollar terms that's under $3 billion. Uh
that's what we understand so far. The
buy proposal is set to be announced
soon. That's also according to people
familiar with uh what is going on as
things stand or halted but as you can
see shares already had somewhat react to
uh this breaking line that has come
through uh so far. Okay. Um let's pivot
back from Japan and once this gets
underway if it gets underway we'll
revisit that of course back here and
also that's been something that's been
actually on the hotter side of things.
Let me just borrow that concept. Uh when
you look at the 14-day RSI of dollar
China onshore offshore you know we were
trading at 120. Uh so really to the
downside a lot of momentum there both as
you can see the spread between the two.
Um and as you can see absolute basis
we're back below the seven handle on the
Chinese currency. Let's bring in Becky
Leo head of China macro strategy at
Standard Chartered Bank. Happy new year.
Nice to see you.
>> Happy new year.
>> We're wondering what's happening with
the currency and why it's so strong
despite the weak cyclical backdrop.
>> Um well back in December it was quite
clearly seasonality. uh a lot of the
Chinese exo exporters has been underched
and we know that they've got like
altogether more than one trillions of um
uh uh chase surplus last year but the
conversion ratio has been the lowest
since 2016. So many of these corporates
were rushing to convert a bit more
before year end. But getting into
January, we think uh the momentum is
likely to be less strong uh especially
compared with December. Uh dollar CNY
dollar CN is likely to hover around 7%
uh seven in the uh in the foreseeable
future in our view. So first of all is a
seasonality. We started to see uh
stronger dividend payments from some of
the onshore um uh companies that are
listed in Hong Kong. At the same time we
are also seeing that uh fixing started
to see a slightly uh more weakening
buyers uh compared with uh the previous
few weeks. At the same time we also saw
um the like even state media start to
flag about this oneway appreciation back
>> the risk of oneway bets.
>> So there's a bit more push back already.
You're saying
>> uh well I I think it's not yet to the
levels that they can't tolerate a bit
more uh appreciation. Uh indeed we we
believe that this year uh Ciana will
still likely to see some appreciation.
One is that the chaser plus is very
structural. If you look at last year's
export growth um three quarters are
driven by um industrial uh upgrade
related products. Uh and at the same
time uh like when China is having this
renewed push to remain
internationalization they will favor a
slight um appreciation expectation from
here. So uh recently I think they just
want to tame the speed of very fast pace
of appreciation. So in general we think
appreciation expectation is going to be
here to stay but the actual pace of
appreciation will likely to be quite uh
modest and probably just follow that uh
follow what's pricing by the forward.
Okay. The a lot of what happens there is
contingent on the the macro and I wonder
I think if I can ask my producers we
have a chart that actually shows swaps.
Um there are some I think we've seen
this chart with with you as well. So
early signs that inflation will be I
wouldn't say coming back in a big way
but better than the last 12 months.
What's your view on inflation whether or
not rates markets are getting that one
correctly?
>> Yep. So uh the deepest deflationary
pressure is now behind us. So we have
seen both CPI PPI bouncing back from the
lows. So if we look at uh take a look at
uh this PPI deflation uh the worst is
over especially with the commodity
prices uh rising this anti-involution
preventing the corporates from selling
below cost and so on. Uh so deflation is
likely to narrow further from here. But
if we look at the general uh inflation
uh picture for China, it's not yet a
year for inflation. It's the year of um
a gradually moving away from deflation.
So if we uh just look at that from a
numbers perspective. Um in in the last
quarter we had the worst GDP deflator
since 1999 uh of u more than minus 1%.
This year we are probably looking for
GDP deflator returning to a level that's
quite close to zero but not yet zero. So
it's at the end of this round of the
deflationary cycle but it's not yet time
for uh inflation uh yet. the the the PMI
numbers that we talked uh for December.
Yeah. I mean, all of a sudden we're
we're back above
>> 50 across the board.
>> 50 across the board. Uh is is that a
one-off or do you do you see that maybe
there is some signs of recovery now?
>> Um the signs of recovery remains
relatively uh modest uh in in our view.
We started to see um a few things
changing. One is that the government is
uh uh uh putting a lot more focus in in
terms of investment. So reviving
investment it's one of the key agenda at
the beginning of this year especially
across the board like manufacturing
investment, infrastructure investment,
real estate investment were deeply in
the negative territory since the second
half of last year. But if you look at
the first batch of uh special bond
related funds that are deployed to uh to
uh for for infrastructure investment,
it's almost doubling the um the amount
uh versus the first quarter of last
year. Um but aside from that uh if we
talk about um consumption etc it doesn't
look like the government's push is going
to be as strong as last year and again
if you look at the funds um under the
special CGB bonds uh for uh the
so-called good subsidy um the the amount
that they gave for the first quarter of
this year it's more than 20% lower
compared with the first quarter of last
year. So um and if we look at retail
sales the moment when you have all these
direct subsidy fading slightly in the
second half of last year retail sales
came down quite immediately. So we still
think it's going to be a motherfree
situation given the high base in the
first and the second quarter of last
year. It's not very easy to see a very
rosy number for the first half of this
year in our view. But it also means that
quite a lot of the economic stimulus
especially fiscal uh funds expenditure
will be frontloaded again. And is do you
think that's because the softer fiscal
support is that because is that a sign
of confidence or is that a sign of
fiscal constraint?
>> Um we we we think in general like when
we look at the aggregate amount of
fiscal expenditure it's probably going
to be kept at a similar pace of last
year. Uh one is that if you got PPI
rebounding you typically would got
fiscal income slightly rebounding. So
even if you keep the deficit uh the same
then your your spending momentum would
be uh the same as well. The key
difference this year is that they are
reallocating where they are using uh uh
uh the funds. So they are slightly
scaling back the direct subsidy to for
example the purchase of home appliances
but on the other hand they are strongly
stepping up the investment um uh into a
number of uh areas like strongly
stepping in uh up the support to
infrastructure investment. So they are
reallocating the funds. The total amount
might be quite similar. Uh but of course
they also have some fiscal uh
constraints uh especially reflected in
the infrastructure investment um uh on
the back of the local government
situation. So that's uh again be uh like
this year we will start to see
frontloading of that swap bond issuance
to alleviate some of these pressure. Uh
but uh in general we feel China is
entering a year of consolidation and
transformation. the overall economic
policy will will remain expansionary but
the focus is more uh on structural
reform and uh gaining long-term
competitiveness instead of a emergency
mode that they had last year.
>> Where does that leave rates then? I mean
2025 was a we saw the yield curve
actually steepen.
>> Can can can it stay steep?
>> Uh we think in the foreseeable future
probably even last through the entire
first half yield curve might stay quite
steep. Um on one hand, China is still
relatively reluctant to cut rates in a
[clears throat] aggressive way. So if
you look at the PBC's Q4 monetary policy
report, I think there's one interesting
uh statement that the goal is now
changing to uh maintain low financing
cost instead of driving financing cost
lower in the previous quarters. So it
doesn't look like they're going to cut
rates uh aggressively. Um and on the
other hand there are quite a lot of uh
technical factors uh supporting the
yield on the back end of the curve. So
on one hand we are still expecting
strong special government bond
issuations. Those are elongated like on
average is 30 year plus uh of supply but
on the other hand there's a lack of
demand for longdated bonds at this stage
especially when equity momentum is
holding up and when this equity uh bond
to equity rotation is still ongoing. So,
so long as your non-bank advisor not
buying that the back end of the curve
might stay relatively elevated.
>> So, what's the what's your number one
trade this year early on?
>> Oh, well early on I I think we could uh
still uh uh look at the front end of the
China rates curve. Uh I think at the
very uh front end we are still
relatively comfortable and especially
market is completely pricing out rate
cut expectation then this would uh still
be a bit uh uh extreme uh for the CNY. I
think I would uh wait until probably the
second half of this year uh for for the
performance to gain um momentum again.
So in the first half it's more about a
rangebound situation.
>> Becky, great to have you Bilu there.
Head of China macro strategy at
Stansard. Uh we're checking the peso
here right now. So we're getting some
comments from the the BSP central bank
governor uh Ellie Remlano and saying
that look the the BSP maybe they're
leaning towards one more rate cut. So
that is what they're saying here. If we
get off the fence, it's probably another
rate cut, but that's probably about it.
One more rate cut according to Ramolono
there. Uh that was of course back in
December. Um we'll see what else, but
they said there still is another rate
cut on the table for February. That's
the timing right now.
>> Yeah. Coming off the inflation point
which came out at the top of this uh
this hour which actually came in
slightly above expectations. The peso as
you can see is 59.40
59143.
I'm just looking at the specific level
we're tracking which would be 5926
is the level you're tracking to the
upside of course or to the weaker side
of the peso. Okay. Uh another story out
of the Philippines. Uh this is B2B. This
is perhap more more more B2C here. There
we go. So Jollibee
uh int and I think shares are still
halted in Manila. Let me just check very
quickly. But yes, uh the spin-off of the
international business and the plan is
to list shares in the US. That's what we
know so far based on that announcement
so far. Okay. Um just ahead.
>> Yeah, we're coming up. We're talking
about China. Don't pivot here.
>> Yeah, I was just thinking [music] about
chicken fried chicken and then I then
you stopped me. Yeah. Stopped me
thinking, but yeah. No, there you go.
Let's talk about China South Korea
relations here. leaders reaffirming
bilateral ties at their [music] second
meeting in two months. A look at their
latest agreements next. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
China is ready to work with South Korea
to stay firmly committed [music] to
friendly cooperation, uphold the
principle of mutual benefit and win-win
outcomes and push forward the
development of the China South [music]
Korea strategic cooperative partnership
on a healthy trajectory so as to [music]
promote the well-being of the two
peoples and inject positive energy into
regional and even global peace and
development.
It's only been 2 months, but I have that
feeling that I'm meeting an old friend I
haven't seen for a long time. [music]
It's quite cordial and heartwarming. For
thousands of years, South Korea and
China, as [music] friendly neighbors,
have forged friendly relations. I am
ready to follow the trend of the times
and [music] work together with President
Xi to usher in a new chapter in the
development of South Korea and China
[music] ties.
The Chinese and South Korean presidents
there speaking during their meeting
yesterday. today. Let's bring in our
China correspondent, Mim Lo. She joins
us now. Uh the tone certainly felt felt
like it was pretty warm. What were some
of the concrete concrete sort of
outcomes that came out of this meeting?
>> Yeah, it's been pretty positive. So, the
two sides signed at least 14US and I
think for South Korea in particular, the
main concern is that their trade surplus
with China has turned into a deficit
since 20 uh 23 because China has been
ramping up its own domestic
manufacturing. It's been getting harder
for South Korean companies to compete in
China. So uh uh President E has been
pushing for more trade particularly in
areas like AI uh consumer goods,
cultural goods as well. So he cited
examples of Korean beauty products,
films and games as potential areas for
breakthroughs. And we know that China
has placed this informal ban on South
Korean entertainment in China since the
that missile crisis in 2016, right? And
the South Korean presidential aid said
it could take a while more for China for
China to lift that ban. But they are
quite hopeful that with trust building
over the longer term, we could perhaps
in the future see South Korean pop
concerts returning to Beijing. And one
of the other big breakthroughs as well
is that the two leaders finally agreed
to resume a ministerial uh level
economic dialogue that has been pretty
much frozen since the that missile
crisis. So another good sign that they
are perhaps turning over a new page
here.
It's it's it's hard to look at this in a
vacuum, right? Because the the
geopolitical backdrop between the US and
China and Korea of course is one of the
allies in the US
>> in the Asia Pacific. How is that
affecting this dialogue?
>> Yeah. So obviously EJ has to really walk
a very fine line because it's not just
the US they're balancing between uh
their relations with China and the US
but also Japan as well. Uh and we know
there's a China Japan tension that is
brewing and presidency in some ways is
courting friendlier relations with South
Korea and the economic concessions that
we saw today perhaps also coming at the
cost of you know the pressure from China
calling on South Korea to quote stand on
the right side of history and presidency
pointing to their combined efforts
during World War II fighting against
Japanese militarism. So, South Korean
President Eomo, he did reassure that,
you know, Korea will continue to adhere
to the one China policy. But the other
tricky issue is also North Korea, which
fired what was suspected to be a
ballistic missile ahead of the trip and
because this happened after President
Trump seized Maduro and some analysts
are saying that this is just sending a
message to North Korea that abandoning
that nuclear program could be suicide.
So, you know, South Korea is asking
China's help to advance peace in the
Korean peninsula, but that task is going
to become more and more difficult as
Korea, North Korea likely will want to
accelerate its nuclear program there.
>> All right, Mman, thank you. Min low
there, China correspondent on the latest
of course on this Lee Xi meeting and
there's more coming up on the impact of
course on President Lee's [music] visit
to China. The Harvard University Asia
Centers Xun Lee [music] joining us in
the next hour. Uh just a brief look at
markets and milestones. CSRI 300 highest
in four years. Shanghai comp highest
[music] in 10 years at about these
levels. Plenty more ahead. This is the
China show. [music]
Here are some of the stories that we're
following for you today. The US and over
[music] a 100 countries have finalized
an agreement exempting American
companies from some foreign [music]
taxes. The deal excludes US-based
multinational firms from the 15% global
minimum tax negotiated through the
[music] OECD. It also effectively blocks
other countries from imposing more
levies on some foreign subsidiaries
[music] of US multinationals.
Saudi Arabia is cutting the price of its
flagship crew for [music] Asia for a
third month amid signs of over supply in
the market. State producer Saudi Aramco
lowered [music] the price of its Arab
light grade to a 30 cent premium to the
regional benchmark [music] for February.
It comes as OPEC plus sticks with its
plan to pause supply increases in the
first quarter. Okay. Uh speaking of oil,
[music] let's use that as a jumping off
point with a look at uh commodity
markets. So, we're mixed not quite the
extreme moves that we had uh on Monday.
So, call it I'll hit you a big word,
consolidation. There we go. Copper 1 and
a half% 13-2 right now. uh we I think we
did close below we crossed above 13 we
closed below it um into the close but
that's academic at this point 132 right
now on uh copper uh on the LME CSI 300
within the sectors there we are building
on the very strong start to the year
yesterday and within the IT index
specifically so we're up 2.3% there the
biggest gainer percentage wise on the
CSI 300 is a stock advanced micro
fabrication it resumed trading
on Gen 5. That's a semiplay if the name
doesn't give it away. Uh industrial's
also feeling some of the the moves to
the upside. And the benchmarks, let's
have a look at that about 24 minutes
into the cash market session. We did hit
some milestones here on on mainland
benchmarks.
>> So, highest close since January 2022 for
CSI 300. Uh when it comes to Shanghai
Composite, we're just a few I think I a
percent or two away um from hitting
those 2015 highs as well. So certainly
we're getting a very strong start to the
year for Chinese equities already for
2026. Uh Hangen is already up some 1%.
So today it's more I mean both you know
onshore and offshore doing quite well
here today as well. HST is close to 2%
gains here. Bonds are on offer. Dollar
China still on the stronger side at 698
levels as well. So one to watch really
closely is the currency that continues
to be a positive story.
>> Yeah. Uh so a apart from data we have
Hong Kong PMI we have a bill sale on the
Chinese mainland and I'd also pay
attention to southbound flows which hit
18 billion yesterday. Hong Kong dollars
that is of course was the highest level
in terms of southbound buying since
October. Uh you have to consider of
[music] course that there was a holiday
so there might have been pentup demand
there. That's one to watch. We're still
largely positive on southbond flows. The
second hour of the China [music] show is
next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Last year in 2025, Hong Kong has been
doing substantially better than Asia.
>> I think Asia only catch [music] up after
Novemberish. And also right now if you
if you look at the uh the leadership
[music] in the market, right? So it's on
one hand it's the technology sector that
is going uh on full cylinder and then at
the same time I think the industrial
medals are [music] also going very very
well as well. So I think you know many
of the industrial names uh is actually
coming back is giving people a sense of
you know cyclical upswing even though
[music] the economic data is not showing
it but I think in the market you know
sentiment is back and people is you know
have the money to spend and so they're
ready [music] to get back to the market.
we could uh still uh uh look at the
front end of the China rates [music]
curve. Uh I think at the very uh front
end we are still relatively comfortable
and especially market is completely
pricing out [music] rate cut expectation
then this would still be a bit uh uh
extreme. Uh for the CNY I think I would
[music] uh wait until probably the
second half of this year uh for for the
performance to gain um momentum again.
So in the first half [music] it's more
about a rangebound situation.
>> There you go. our guests from the
previous hour giving us their take on
markets [music] and really where their
conviction lies. So short short end of
the curve uh for Stan chart and really
for for how long he says look given the
liquidity everything looks pretty good
right now uh in this equity market right
so we're set for the highest close since
January 2022 for the CSI 300 welcome
back of course to the second hour and
certainly we talk about the momentum
that we're seeing uh today it's not just
the Asia market today it's actually both
that we're seeing quite a lot of juice
>> yes uh and that's despite I think there
were some downgrades coming out of
Goldman and the metal space but you know
today We're looking we're moving in sync
right we're moving in sync we're
[clears throat] looking at positive flow
still across the stock connect you are
still getting the similar theme uh in
the onore markets right so you have
everything from precious metals that's
showing up in the likes of Tin Mining um
some of the uh chip and semiplays are
leading this cobalt of course is more a
materials play but that's nothing new
suffice to say CSI 710 to 1% at this
level we are set to close at the highest
in 4
Hang Singh index. We talked about that.
Let's flip the page, please, and have a
look at how we're else we're doing here.
So, we're looking at Hang Sing. There we
go. 1.3%
to the upside. 330 there. And so, it's
not just, right? So, it's not just the
the fact that AI is is still a theme,
right? There are plenty of idiosyncratic
reasons and news and announcements
announcements to come out of CES perhaps
that will be fueling this rally even
further. Uh, in case you missed the last
five or six days, you're just coming
back. Of course, everything from the
deep seat publication to the BU news to
the quai show data yesterday. So, we're
up 1.3 on the Hanging Index going into
uh the Yeah, about 32 minutes into the
cash market uh session here. But yeah,
you know, we're it's the question that
we we've been posing and I think we
asked this to how early on, right? The
the fact that we've seen a shift in
market leadership
>> uh in favor of onshore stocks. The CSI
300 of course had a really really good
start to the year.
>> Yeah. strongest start since 2015 and and
certainly it's it's the names that you
don't think of, right? You know, last
year was all about Alibaba and all the
sort of the big players uh within the
China tech space. Uh but right now we're
talking about hardware was doing very
well yesterday. The chip stocks in
particular on show markets were
doubledigit gains from for for some if
not most of them. Uh right now we are
seeing when it comes to some of these
tech gauges are doing quite well here
once again. Shenzhen still a little bit
on fire here but yes it certainly has
been a strong start to 2026 and that is
thanks of course this rally in tech
shares for more let's bring in Lanting
too our managing editor for Asia
Equities joining us from Singapore on on
what really do you think is driving this
optimism back on the mainland Lanting
>> yeah I think mainly it is a dry powder
that people have right now to put to use
and they chose the tech sector mainly uh
that's because a lot of people took
profit towards the end of last year
because of sort of a lot of
uncertainties on the geopolitical front
and this year if you look at uh investor
sentiment globally it has been quite
upbeat people are really putting money
to use before uh and and ask questions
later so the same thing is panning out
in China so if you look at overall um
trade volume last uh yesterday's trading
session actually we saw the highest
volume uh in about three months and the
gains were also quite broad-based if you
look at the Shanghai composite more than
a thousand stocks were in the green and
today as well so I think a lot of people
are just rethinking the sort of sector
allocation again and tech sector
continues to be a winner so star 50 is
really an outstanding gainer because
there's also a lot of listings coming up
for uh on this gauge and if you look at
some of those names there are really
market leaders Chongqing and also So uh
uh Yangu, those are really two leading
chip makers in China.
>> Uh Leanting. So it looks like the the
rally is is broadening and I wonder to
your point that people are rethinking
their you know their specific sector
exposure to China. Are there specific
themes or stock stories that your team
is focused on today as far as the some
of the big movers are concerned?
Yeah, I think uh we are looking at the
broader index level today just because
um of the milestones that CSI and
Shanghai comp hit as you guys mentioned
earlier. I think it you know these are
not really fresh milestones because we
saw uh the milestones being reached in
October but at least gains have been
reclaimed for now and people now looking
ahead to what's on the horizon. I think
the next catalyst would be the MPC and
that will be in March. And overall I
think the macroeconomic front uh data
point on the manufacturing front looked
upbeat and Xiinping also offered an
upbeat assessment of China's economy in
2025. So both on the macro level and on
the sector level it seems nothing
nothing is going wrong right now.
>> Oh okay. Well uh yeah to go what? Yeah.
Well, we could we I mean we could
continue on this. Let's let's start
[laughter] let's take a positive note.
Thank you so much. Our managing editor
there for Asia Equities in Singapore. I
mean Hong just mentioned right with
liquidity you you got to love
everything. Buy everything. Uh [snorts]
looking at fundamentals at some point
fundamentals will matter. They do matter
of course but what is our starting point
uh for 2026? Now just to quote Bloomberg
economics Chong Shu and her team Beijing
will be to frontload stimulus measures
this year to prop up growth. Now, our
team led by there we go uh says that the
government has restarted a subsidy
program to energize consumption but only
on a modest scale and it's likely to
roll out uh more measures. Some of the
consensus forecasts right now in case
you're curious what that looks like as
far as the different metrics of the
economy from growth, inflation, retail
sales, industrial production coming up
on your screens. And I think the the
note from Becky Leo who joined us about
30 minutes back was that there has been
a shift in where that fiscal support is
targeted from things like appliances to
more like infrastructure.
>> So that's something to to note I guess
as we try and figure out which the big
winners are will be in the market this
year.
>> Yeah. Let's bring in life escen chief
economist at CLSA joining us now uh from
California. Life is good to have you on
the program. I mean generally speaking
you take a look at how global growth
fared for 2025. it held up reasonably
well if you compare it to back to
liberation days. Um but interestingly
enough when it comes to what you're
projecting for China is for a growth
moderation for 2026 I believe at 4.4%.
Uh which is of course below the target.
Tell us a bit more about you know what
sort of weakness that you're expecting
from the Chinese economy this year.
Yeah, I mean so I think uh what is
behind the sort of roughly 4 and a half%
growth forecast we have for for 2026 is
uh an assumption around a couple of
things that will be seriously slightly
different than 2025 right so I think an
important aspect of your assumption is
how much do you assume for for fiscal
stimulus for example right so right now
our expectation is that the central
government deficit for 2026 will remain
around 4% of GDP which is the same as it
was in 2025, right? So technically
you're not getting uh with that
assumption additional fiscal should we
say impulse to growth in in 2026. So
that's one of the reasons why uh we have
assumed uh a sort of moderation in
growth for this uh year. Another thing
is also uh some of that you can say fund
loading that took place in 2025 of uh uh
global trade ahead of imposition of US
tariffs. uh some of that was also in
China's case uh uh you saw that in
diversion of of trade through other
countries and diversification of trade
in terms of exports to other countries
and we just don't think that will be
able to continue to the same extent in
in 2026.
If there is, should we say more stimulus
coming out of course than what we have
currently assumed, right? Then of course
there's an upside to our uh forecast for
growth uh this year, right? But we would
need to see a step up in in stimulus
especially on the fiscal front uh to
sort of see us moving closer to should
we say 5% target is what if that's what
they end up going with.
>> Life David here. So I guess just to talk
more more broadly because I think you
alluded to some of the the tailwinds
that perhaps might not be as as as felt
and present this year, things like the
front loing of of trade. Uh does that
apply as well when you look at the your
projections for global growth, things
like frontloading, AI capex, and if if
that is the case, if those tailwinds do
fade somewhat, are there future are
there potential supports for growth that
we could lean on perhaps?
I mean so I think uh on on on that
broader front I mean we think some of
those should we say factors that have
driven the resilience in 2025 are now in
part or in whole in the rear view. So
one of the ones we talked about was fund
loading of trade. Uh in the case of US
for example there was also front loading
of consumption and and business spending
ahead of the imposition of tariffs. But
as you also mentioned a key driver of
she say the resilience we had in in US
elsewhere but in the US in particular
was uh should we say the front u loading
we also had or you can say that the
significant
uh boost we had to AI related capex
spending right so in the US of course
that had implications for investments
for capex but it also drove a lot of the
export out of Asia right so Taiwanese
exports for example held up by the
strong AI cycle and so on right but as
we look into to 2026 right I would not
say we are looking at a significant drop
off in in AI related capex right but we
do see a moderation in in uh the growth
rate of AI related capex following the
increase we saw uh in 2024 and 2025
right so the level effect is going to
kick in there also now being more
questions asked about shall we say the
commercial viability of some of these
capic investments and associated lending
on that front right so that also to some
extent might constrain the constrain the
impetus to growth from that side. A
final thing I would uh highlight that in
our view is going to be a bit of a
damper on growth in 2026 is in 2025 we
had u of course relatively buoyant uh
equity markets and that led to positive
uh wealth effects uh for consumers and
it helped with uh raising capital for
businesses. we don't have the same shall
we say prospects in our view in terms of
upside to to uh to equities. So we think
the sort of wealth effect and the
positive effects on growth from that
side as well will also diminish. Uh so
we do see some some softness in growth
in the next few quarters. Uh on the back
of this for the US specifically we're
looking at growth of 1.9% uh this year
in 2026. Uh it's a bit of a year of two
halves. A softer first half and then a
some much stronger second half of the
year as you start to see the lag effect
of easing and fiscal stimulus.
[snorts]
>> Yeah, it seems like we're starting to
see at least some central banks in this
part of the world lean a bit more on the
hawkish side. leave a life. But the I
mean the Fed is still the key thing
where markets are still pricing in two
rate cuts for 2026. Do you think they're
pricing in too much? I mean, how how far
do you think the Fed can actually cut
this year?
>> No, that that's in line with the our
forecast as well for the Fed, two two
rate cuts, and we've had that for a
while. Um, our view is that those two
rate cuts uh would come in in the first
half of the year. That's more because we
do see more of the softness and growth
uh playing out in the first uh first
half of the year. And then as you go
into the second half as I mentioned we
do see a pick up in growth on the back
of both monetary but also fiscal
stimulus right so I think that's still
realistic but I I do want to highlight
that uh inflation risks in the US are
not gone I think the latest inflation
reading we got from the US uh was biased
by the government shutdown uh and I
think actually that inflation number was
was uh lower than should we say the
underlying inflation in reality was
right. So I think the Fed still has to
contend with this persistence in
inflation, right? And really have to
move very cautiously. There's no way
they're going to cut in January, for
example. In our view,
>> markets, investors,
economists last year, life um had a
somewhat of serious rethink over the
concept of US exceptionalism, whether
that's on the, you know, the equity
market side or
>> on the economy. I think you just laid
out your your your projection for US
growth.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you think that broader story
plays out in 2026? What happens to US
exceptionalism this year?
>> Yeah, it's something we've we've looked
a fair bit into, right? So, uh I mean I
think just just a quick recap. I mean
for for US exceptionalism of course it's
higher headline growth. It's stronger
productivity growth that we've seen. Uh
equity asset markets have also performed
well. Some of the key drivers behind
that has been uh strong productivity as
I mentioned right it's also been
flexible labor and product markets uh
deep uh capital markets that provide
significant amounts of of risk uh risk
capital immigration etc right uh so of
course if you think about some of the
new Trump policies that are coming in
right I mean more protection is not
positive for growth then of course you
have a tightening in immigration
policies which is also not uh should we
a positive uh for for growth as well,
right? There are issues around should we
say u we say mission creep and pressures
on central bank. So so so in terms of
institutional quality there also some
concerns there right. So, so we think
those factors uh will be negative for
say US exceptionalism and and will
bruise it but it will not uh end it so
to speak right. So we also still in the
US has a have a positive aspect that
comes through from from AI and you can
say AI investments and roll out has had
more uh leeway to grow under the Trump
administration right so we think
potential growth uh will end up at
around 2% still over the medium term but
these additional Trump policies that are
bruising potential growth right are sort
of capping a potential upside to to
exceptionism
>> life fantastic happy new year to you sir
and your team Le esen there of course
chief economist CLSA uh joining us on
their expectations for uh for the year
right uh maybe Dr. Copper has something
to tell you about. That's uh $13,000
a ton. That's for the very first time.
We'll have a deeper look at what's
driving uh really the scorching rally in
in [music] copper. That's coming up
next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> ah the irony of looking down to see
what's below ground specifically to see
what's going up. Uh so the best
performing commodity this year and
granted it's been just the start has
been copper right we're up uh let's call
it six seven% that's that's the that's
the LME contract you look at what's
happening on the CME might be something
different but suffice to say we've done
well 13,000 a ton for the very first
time today Martin Richie is with us our
metals and mining reporter to tell us
what is going on uh with with copper
Martin why don't we start off with the
demands because that seems to be the new
component here.
>> That's certainly one of the components.
Uh there's there's really a lot going on
in copper and as you said, it's a really
uh powerful rally. We've seen it's up
now 20% uh just since the end of
November. So really powerful year end uh
really powerful surge into this year.
We're now well above 13,000 a ton, which
is levels that were really sort of
unthinkable even a few months ago. Um so
last year there was a lot of uh mine
disruptions uh which curtailed supply.
Uh there's a longstanding bullish
narrative about copper because of its
use in the energy transition in
renewable energy and power grids. Uh
there's also a lot of positivity around
uh copper used in data centers and
associated infrastructure. So that added
an extra buzz. But then you also have
the prospect uh this year sometime in
the middle of this year uh US President
Donald Trump is expected to uh decide
whether there should be import tariffs
on refined copper. Traders are trying to
get as much metal as they can to the US
ahead of that uh decision and that's
just uh possibly going to starve the
rest of the world of metal. So when you
put all these things together especially
that kind of tariff decision which is a
big uncertainty it is uh creating a lot
of upward mment attention drawing in a
lot of uh bullish voices to to copper.
So it's uh it's a really m
momentumdriven trade at this point.
Yeah, I mean as you mentioned right
13,000 seemed almost unthinkable just a
few months ago, but here we are. This US
import rush seems to be driving a lot of
the price action. What are the analysts
telling you now on just how much more
upside there is in copper moving
forward?
We've already I it's it's very early in
the new year, so we haven't heard had a
lot of like you know fresh updates to
price forecasts and so on, but have to
say we've already smashed through most
people's uh ideas of where prices were
going to be at this point uh so early in
2026. Um I would say that one of the one
of the risks is uh you know the tariff
situation is is fairly you know
temporary. It's time limited globally.
Uh supply of copper is not that tight.
It's just you've got this uh strange
situation at the moment where
inventories keep rising, keep growing in
the US, depriving the rest of the world
of metal. And you know what people are
doing is betting on the prices at some
point in the in the first half of this
year peeking out before the tariffs are
slammed on and that trade is shut. Um,
another risk is that the AI trade in
world equities also stalls all that
positivity about construction of data
centers, infrastructure and so on.
Copper's become quite heavily tied to
that. And if that pulls back, then
copper might uh might also
>> Yeah. So, I think some of these
analysts, they got to get going and
maybe they need to upgrade their
forecast a little bit. They'll get to
work first.
>> Yeah. It's only what, January 6, right?
Martin, thank you. Martin Richie are
metals and David was just taking stock
of the the market already.
>> Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Um certainly one
to watch uh in terms of Asian markets
and how the rest are doing. Martin,
thank you. Uh still doing quite well
when it comes to take a look at HSI.
There you go. We're at one and a half%
up now. Close to 400 points up to there
26,743. [music]
CSI 300 we are on track of course to
close at fouryear [music] highs just
around that 4800 level as well. Japan
still doing quite well. Cosby heading
the opposite direction here [music]
today. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Some stories that we're tracking for you
today. Tesla's China factory shipments
fell 70% 7% I should say [music] in 2025
despite a lastminute bump in December.
Prelim data from China's passenger car
association showed the automaker shipped
over 851,000 [music]
vehicles last year from its Shanghai
plant. Tesla is struggling with a
slowdown in global sales, losing its
title [music] as the world's largest EV
maker to BYD. Hyundai Motor shares have
given up early gains in soul after its
Boston Dynamics unit unveiled the latest
version of a humanoid robot designed
[music] to work in the car makers plant
starting from 2028. Hyundai initially
plans to deploy its [music] Atlas robot
to handle highly repetitive tasks before
plugging it into more complex assembly
work by 2030. And we're going to hear
more from Hyundai's robotics [music]
ambitions later on this week. Their vice
president and head of robotics joining
us live from CES in Las Vegas on
Thursday at the times on your screen.
[music] That's going to be part of that
special edition of the Bloomberg Tech
Asia this Wednesday at 8:30 a.m. in Hong
Kong. Tuesday 7:30 p.m. If you're
watching from New York, subscribers can
use the function TV go or watch [music]
live on bloombert.com.
>> Yep. Uh very very quickly, uh there's a
deal that's through Cafe Pacific. Air
China reducing [music]
its stake. Suare's getting a bit more of
that. It's playing out across the stock
of Cafe Pacific. We're down about 2%
[music] on shares there. Uh we'll have
plenty more ahead here on the China
show.
>> [music]
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading into that lunch break and
yeah, uh there seems to be still an up
arrow story for Japan here today. Korea
is doing the opposite thing, but the one
thing to watch in the next hour is of
course the allimportant 10-year bond
auction happening there in the JGB
market. Uh right now we are seeing
yields heading lower by one basis points
at 211 or so. So we'll see what the
demand picture looks like here of course
but yeah Japanese stock still doing
quite well with the topics outperforming
today up by about 1.3%.
>> Yes. Uh there's one one specific stock
that we were tracking there that was
halted of course uh following that
report. U hisitsu pharma right did spike
on the back of the Bloomberg report.
>> The pain patches.
>> The hot patches. Yes.
>> Hot patches. Yes.
>> Hot patches for the pain.
>> For the pain.
>> There we go. I actually have one
>> right on your back right now.
>> Right now on my [laughter] back. Yeah.
What an endorsement.
>> Yeah. Um, it certainly helps. It helps.
We We've been complaining how cold it is
here.
>> It's 10°
>> in Hong Kong. And
>> it's cold for us.
>> We know that doesn't sound like a lot,
but
>> Celsius we're talking about.
[clears throat]
>> It is. It's It's freezing. And Min will
attest to that, too. It is. Yeah. It's
it's it's one of those weeks where it
feels a lot uh the ski jackets are out.
Let's put it that way. Ski boots and
everything else unnecessarily. So,
including the gym selfies, but don't get
me started. Okay.
Asia markets. Um, so Japan is doing
okay. Asia is doing okay still. 6 cents
of 1%. Korea though tailwind coming from
that specific market has gone away at
least for today. It's the Asia market in
China that's doing the heavy lifting.
Precious metals, materials, not so much
tech, although tech is still up. Uh,
Asia Pacific X Japan is up 310 to 1%. So
yeah, lot lots uh to lots of reasons to
buy into this momentum still here.
>> Yep. And we'll talk a little bit more
about the geopolitics as well with
Chinese President Xiinping and South
Korean leader Lee Jayun have reaffirmed
their bilateral relationship in that
meeting. Of course, the two leaders have
met about twice, I think, in a month
already since if you count APEC, that
meeting that happened late last year.
So, a sign that both sides are working
to stabilize relations amid geopolitical
tensions. Let's bring in our China
correspondent, Mman Low. She's here
right now. Uh we talked about the tone
was obviously very warm, but what really
came out of this meeting? Yeah,
definitely business and e-commerce was
the focus here because President E
brought with him a delegation of about
200 business leaders including the heads
of SK group of Samsung and Hundai as
well. They were all there and of course
President Eyong has been wanting to turn
around this uh trade deficit in South
Korea that began in about 2023 or so.
The concern is that that def that that
deficit could remain entrenched as China
beefs up its own advanced manufacturing.
So uh he's looking to expand trade
especially in areas like AI, like
consumer goods, uh like cultural goods
as well. So he cited the the example of
Korean beauty products, films, uh and
games as potential areas for
breakthroughs. And again, we know that
China has placed that informal ban on
Korean entertainment since the missile
crisis in 2016. And this is something
that they hope will be lifted in the
future. You know, they're hopeful that
with with trust being rebuilt uh over
time, we could soon see K-pop concerts
in Beijing again. But have a listen to
what he said when he met with President
Xi.
>> It's only been 2 months, but I have that
feeling that I'm meeting an old friend I
haven't seen for a long time. It's quite
cordial and heartwarming. For thousands
of years, South Korea and China, as
friendly neighbors, have forged friendly
relations. I am ready to follow the
trend of the times and work together
with President Xi to usher in a new
chapter in the development of South
Korea and China ties.
>> So he is hoping to start a new era of
South Korea China relations. Uh so 2026
could be the year where we see this
reset but we'll have to see whether the
durability of some of those um outcomes
uh would would maintain after this. And
you know it's a it's I think this
applies any year anyway but it's a very
complicated geopolitical backdrop right
now. Right. We talked you know the big
story was Venezuela, the US and China
that doesn't seem to be affecting or
could be affecting really and pushing
these two closer together.
>> Yeah. So we we will have to see how
President Ejyong handles an expected
bilateral meeting that he will have with
the Japanese uh Prime Minister Taki
sometime in January as well because
China certainly will be watching that
very very closely. China on this trip
had already warned South Korea that they
need to stand on the right side of
history especially amid this tension
with Japan. Um and President EJong
reassured China that they were going to
stick with the one China policy but also
you know EJ has been one of those
presidents that was uh really trying to
balance the relations with US and China
as well more so than his predecessor
Yunyo. And I think it will be key to
watch what President Trump does as well,
how he responds to this closer ties
between uh China and South Korea because
we know South Korea, for example, has
been pushing back a little bit against
that investment pledge. Some of the
details still a little bit vague and
they were trying to support the warn
which traders have perhaps reacted to
by, you know, viewing this investment
pledge as being too oversized from South
Korea.
>> Um, yeah. And it's interesting, right? I
I remember when during Ape the one thing
was that he gift you know Lee as she
gifted him a Xiaomi phone and there was
this whole quick moment about you know
is the line secure and they joked about
the banter there
>> you can check the the security back
doors and whatnot you remember that
moment right there's there's a post that
President Lee made of of them him
actually using that Xiaomi phone and he
took a selfie during the second second
trip which I thought was quite cute uh
continuation of that as well but yeah
certainly as you say the the optics were
very very warm and and fuzzy it seems
there. Our China correspondent Mimllo uh
with
>> No, I was wondering did they use the
same phone? I guess.
>> Yes,
>> it was the same exact I think they
mentioned it was the same phone that was
gifted to him in South Korea. They used
it and took a sh a photo.
>> We we need to see that. We need to see
that selfie.
>> Was the Samsung leader there?
>> Huh?
>> Yeah. Did he did he quickly switch his
SIM card [laughter]
>> in the car before that moment?
>> One can have more than one phone.
>> Yeah. Okay. Well, thank you so much Mman
there. Of Of course, we're talking a
little bit more about this uh from
Harvard University Asia Center, South
Korea scholar X Lee joining us from
Boston. Sh, it's great to have you.
Yeah, we talk about, you know, all these
fuzzy moments and and it seems like, you
know, people are almost calling it a
reset
>> of Sino Korea relations. Can we call it
that?
>> Well, um, you know, the optics that you
just mentioned from the summit between
South Korean President Namyong and, uh,
you know, Xiinping
were intentionally warm, but do not make
a mistake. this for geopolitical
realignment it's about managing you know
South Korea's managing tensions with
China you know the way I see it leg just
executed a high wire act of what you
know we South Koreans call pragmatism
diplomacy he's not pivoting away from
Washington is military ally but le is
securing a flow for the South Korean uh
China bilateral relationship economic
relationship before the geopolitical
sealing lows with the President Trump's
scheduled visit to Beijing in April.
What South Korea fears is that with the
Trump and she set to negotiate a grand
bargain in April, South Korea fears that
being treated as a bargaining chip or
side dish on the menu by locking in a
modus vending right now. Liyong has
preemptively defined the South Korea
stakes uh before the superpowers cut a
deal over his head. This was a defensive
uh diplomacy summit meeting to ensure
soul remains a player not a geopolitical
pawn.
>> So let let's talk about so what happens
now? Okay. So let's call it let's call
it reset. Let's let's look at
specifically what what type of specific
commercial upside there is for
businesses and of course uh we had a
whole flurry of of of businessmen that
of course come along uh when we see
these trips. Uh so specifically what
what what points of contact do you think
we will see improvement on between the
two? Well, look, we are looking at uh
Liing is still in in China and he's
heading into uh you know, Shanghai and
we are already looking at about 15
agreements uh and they have agreed to
cooperate on silver economy. You know,
South Korea and China they both have
aging demographics, renewable energy,
crucially the resumption of cultural
exchanges, K-pop, K drama. uh this is
Liam getting asurances that the next
time there is a political tension
between South Korea and China won't
weaponize trade against South Korean
companies like they did in the past you
know the that fiasco that your China
correspondent just mentioned the
economic takeaway is that this is not
necessarily about economic cooperation
expansion but stabilization
>> it's interesting because
um the way that they kind of framed it,
I think it showed that there was almost
like a cost that you know given what she
mentioned there about you know if you go
on the right side of history I think
that was the line that he mentioned to
President Lee
>> on this cooperation.
>> How do you see South Korea really
managing that relationship while not
trying to pivot away from the US?
It's interesting that you cut up uh you
know Xinping you're right explicitly
urged South Korea what he said was stand
firmly on the right side of the history
and make accurate uh strate choices.
This phrasing is a direct reference to
the US China rivalry that South Korea is
dealing with or coping with. These
counter move was to observe this
pressure without conceding South Korea's
alliance with the United States. South
Korea is definitely working the tight
rope between US and China and Lie Jam's
formula the way I understand is
dignified pragmatism
respecting the one China policy blo as
he did in his interview with the CCTV uh
but demanding practical guarantees for
South Korean economic survival in
exchange it is not about choosing side
it's about choosing survival
Okay. Well, the this is going to be a
long drawn out process. It's going to
take years. And I think one of the
arguments you're making, sir, is it's we
are at the beginning of the era where
South Korea will need or can't can't
stop riding on two two boats, right? And
I wonder with and I'm just going to use
Venezuela as a as an example, not
specifically because of this, but you
know, events in Latin America recently
have highlighted that the US is trying
to cement its influence in its part of
the world, in its neighborhood, right?
sphere of influence and I can't help but
think whether or not that could apply to
US allies in the Asia-Pacific
that somehow you know through the
passage of time will slowly start to
fall under the Chinese sphere of
influence.
I don't want to be you know sound
diplomatic but uh I want to avoid
hypothetical questions but Lee is the
way I see it so far is that Lee is not
necessarily pivoting away from
Washington and aligning with the China.
He's securing the fund to stay in
Washington's camp. Uh Liam knows that
South Korea can only be a robust
security partner to the United States if
South Korea's economy is not bleeding
out from Chinese coercion. He didn't go
to Beijing to change sides. He went to
stop the bleeding so soul can remain as
a capable ally of the United States. And
Trump values ally that is resourceful
and Lee is doing exactly like that.
Can I ask then you know if this you know
there are reasons why the Korea is an
ally of the US
you know perhaps the reasons change
because of the passage of time I guess
just to reference that again in your in
your view why do you think Korea should
remain or remains a US what is the
upside for Korea in terms of remaining
an ally of of the United States
>> I think that South Korea is aiming for
the future uh global economic trend
particularly AI and also uh superpowered
uh you know quantum computing and they
think that this is the future of the
global economy including United States
and South Korea as well and you know the
original technology is the techn is all
from the United States and the South
Korean political elites they see this is
very important foundational
bedrock that South Korea could secure so
that South Korea could uh survive and
also prosper in the future economy amid
recent years of economic slump that
South Korea has experienced.
>> Thank you so much for the time there.
That was Harvard University Asia Center
South Korea scholar Lee uh joining us um
out of Boston. In fact, that we were
just talking Ivon and myself just before
uh the interview started there uh of the
selfie of course that took place and I
think we have some we have some pictures
not just of I believe not just of the
pictures of the selfie but the selfie it
itself and this is the post. There we
go. This is the post
>> by the South Korean leader of course.
Yeah, pictures of the selfie and then
the selfie itself is included there. But
yeah, uh very cute taken from Nice
picture.
>> Yeah, it's cute. All right, coming up,
we're talking about Venezuela now.
Nicholas Madura declares himself
innocent of US naroterism charges in his
first court appearance. [music] We have
details coming up. This is Bloomberg.
Outstand Venezuelan President Nicholas
Maduro has faced a US [music] court
along with his wife pleading not guilty
to naroterrorism charges. Their
appearance sets off an extraordinary
legal battle with major geopolitical
ramifications. Bloomberg's Miles Miller
reports from New York.
>> Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro
pleaded not guilty Monday in federal
court in New York to charges that could
keep him behind bars for the rest of his
life. When he walked into the courtroom,
he wished people happy new year. And at
one point, someone screamed at him and
he had a loud outburst saying he was
kidnapped. He and his wife sat wearing
headphones and jail garb to listen to
translation. As Judge Alvin Howerstein
read the charges against him when asked
to enter a plea, Maduro said through an
interpreter, "I am innocent. I am not
guilty. I am a decent man. I am
president of my country." There are four
counts against him, including narotism
conspiracy, cocaine importation
conspiracy, and weapons charges. His
wife faces three counts. If convicted,
he's looking at life in prison. Starting
in 2000, he allegedly moved loads under
protection of Venezuelan law enforcement
and became foreign minister in 2006,
starting to sell diplomatic passports to
traffickers. When they needed to move
money back from Mexico, prosecutors said
he arranged for government planes to fly
under diplomatic cover, meaning that no
one was checking what was on board. The
indictment says he and his wife ran
armed guard escorts to protect cocaine
shipments. They maintain state sponsored
gangs, prosecutors say to facilitate the
operation. And when people didn't pay or
threaten the business, they ordered
kidnappings, beatings, and murders. And
this is a massive scale. By 2020, the
State Department estimated 200 to 250
tons of cocaine per year were moving
through Venezuela. Also charged is their
son, Venezuela's interior minister, and
a gang leader. Maduro represented by
Barry Pollock, the same lawyer who
represented Julianne Assange. The judge
in his case ordered Maduro and his wife
held without bail. Trial won't happen
until 2027. They'll return to court on
March 17th. At the courthouse in lower
Manhattan. I'm Miles Miller, Bloomberg
News.
>> Meanwhile, Bloomberg's been told that
China's top financial regulator has
asked banks to report their lending
exposure uh to Venezuela. That's after
of course the US ousted Nicholas Maduro.
Uh sources say the regulator has also
urged banks to closely monitor Venezuela
related credit to assess of course
potential risks to lenders. China has
lent billions of dollars to Venezuela
over the years mainly to support energy
and infrastructure projects.
>> And former US commerce secretary Wilbur
Ross says China and Russia have
benefited by getting cheap Venezuelan
oil. He told exclusively that President
Trump's vision for a US-led revival of
Venezuela's oil industry will be a long,
complex, and costly undertaking.
>> Well, there's a lot that needs to be
done in terms of laws. Venezuela has the
weakest property rights laws in the
whole world. So that has to be fixed so
that you have some assurance of private
sector continuing ownership. But I think
realistically
companies going in now in a relatively
complex situation are probably going to
want guarantees against expropriation.
And that's not unusual. The US and
multinational entities often give
expatriation
and foreign exchange guarantees.
Now the debt structure is
mind-bogglingly
complicated.
They have about 160 billion of debt alto
together counting expatriation claims,
counting uh funded debt, counting debt
for oil, counting everything. Those
bonds have been trading in the high
teens, low 20s. They could probably be
restructured in the 30 to 40 cents on
the dollar. So in the overall context
that's not a very big number and one of
the few good things is that the IMF has
no exposure to Venezuela
and IMF is entitled to lend up to $50
billion.
So they could very well be a source of
some funding. If if I can just jump in
on that point before we continue,
Wilbur, because some of the exposure we
do understand comes from China and debt
owed to Chinese banks for example. If
there is a restructuring of debt in the
country, do you expect the US to exert
force of who gets priority in the
capital stack? Does it change where back
payments and different uh uh uh
restructuring comes from just given the
geopolitics of the moment between the US
and China?
>> Right. Well, both the Chinese and the
Russians had made loans to Venezuela
that are payable at least partly in oil,
but oil at very very advantageous prices
to them. So they they are part of the
problem in that they're getting oil very
cheaply out of Venezuela in return for
debts that otherwise are never going to
be paid. Now, the oil that comes out of
Venezuela is mostly what we call heavy
oil and that requires a slightly
different uh refining process from the
American shale oil which is mostly light
oil.
Both uh China and India have very strong
facilities for processing heavy oil
because a lot of the Iranian oil that
they had been getting also is heavy.
>> And that was a former US commerce
secretary Wilbur Ross speaking with our
colleague there of course Danny Danny
Burgerer. Now, if you want to rewatch
that full interview [music] or some of
the other segments you might have
missed, the function you run on your
terminal is TV go. We'll take a short
[music] break. We will see you on the
other side of it. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Uh we're looking at shares of Jollibee
in Manila I think have resumed trade
after I think being halted for a few
minutes. Well so academic we're we're up
now 7%. Uh that's on the back of this
plan uh on the part of the company to
spin off its international business and
list it uh in the US. Um mind you it's
early 2026 and the timing for that is
late 2027. So that's still going to be
quite a bit
>> think about what the ticker should be.
>> Oh yeah.
>> B
US
J joy. I say CJ joy chicken joy. That'd
be good.
>> C see C happiness.
>> C.
>> All right. We're talking about montage.
>> Chris P. Chris P.
>> Chris P. Oh, I like that too. All right.
Give us your input here if you want.
Montage Tech. This is the one. uh
they're uh rising there on after this
city has initiated a buy on of course
the AI hopes they're saying that really
the Chinese semiconductor names to gain
exposure to the global data center
expansion it's a rare opportunity
they're calling it so they're 3% up for
that and popart yes
>> yeah you take the story I don't want to
do it
>> oh it's interesting we're up 2% so
Morgan Stanley is saying look
>> the sales potential may be
underestimated in North [music] America
>> what
>> maybe they're still buying them up in
the us. But they say, you know, a lot of
the stronger drivers are going to be
[music] non-Laboo products, they think.
So, not just just Labubu.
>> Can't wait.
>> That's it for us here. See you later.